<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
    <title>How can we reduce wealth inequality</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ejss.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section id="how-can-we-reduce-wealth-inequality" class="level1 unnumbered">
      <h1>How can we reduce wealth inequality?</h1>
      <p>We next consider some generalizations of the model to see what can be done to reduce the
        excessive wealth inequality that occurs. One possible way of avoiding wealth accumulation is
        to not allow agents to lose a part of their wealth on most economic exchanges. If every good
        was priced exactly at its value and if every worker received in wages the added value of the
        products they produced, everybody’s wealth would remain constant. However, this scenario is
        not realistic and not even desirable because profits can be used to grow the economy for the
        benefit of all. Instead, we need to look for other mechanisms that might lead to greater
        wealth equality.</p>
      <p>One mechanism that might result in reducing wealth inequality is taxation. We will
        introduce three types of taxes in the model. One type taxes the amount gained in a
        transaction. This tax is similar to a sales tax or more accurately a tax on the profit made
        by one agent in each transaction. For simplicity, we will refer to this tax as a sales tax
        because this terminology is more familiar. Another approach is to tax the change in wealth
        over some interval of time; such a tax is similar to an income tax. Or we can tax the amount
        of wealth itself. The closest tax of this kind is a property tax. In addition to the
        different types of taxes, there may be different tax rates, depending on the amount of
        wealth or income. The rate for sales taxes usually is the same for all exchanges, except for
        food and clothing which are excluded in some states.</p>
      <p>The following simulations incorporate the effects of a flat sales tax for which the tax
        rate is the same regardless of the amount of the exchange, and progressive income and wealth
        taxes for which the tax rate increases with income and wealth. For simplicity, we set the
        income tax rate at 30% for income over $50,000, 20% for income between $20,000 and $50,000,
        and 10% for income between $10,000 and $20,000. These rates are roughly comparable to the
        income tax rate in the United States. The wealth tax rate in the model is 3% for wealth over
        $500,000, 2% for wealth between $200,000 and $500,000, and 1% for wealth between $100,000
        and $200,000. For simplicity, we choose the sales tax rate to be 10%.</p>
      <p>The way we tax is only half of the story. The other half is what we do with the revenue
        from taxes. Politicians and the media constantly debate the former, but seldom do they
        discuss how tax revenue is distributed. Part of tax revenue goes to running governments,
        such as salaries for government officials, costs to build and maintain government offices,
        and the military. Another large part is for subsidies of various economic interests such as
        agribusiness, oil companies, and transportation. Some tax revenue is used to fund social
        programs, but it is not common for tax revenue to specifically address wealth
        inequality.</p>
      <p>We will introduce two ways of distributing tax revenue; reality is somewhere in between
        these two limiting ways. One way is to distribute the tax revenue so that the wealth of the
        agents is increased by the same percentage of their existing wealth. We will refer to this
        method of distribution as <span><em>proportional revenue distribution</em></span>, because
        wealthier agents receive more of the tax revenue than poorer agents. Another way is to give
        each agent an equal amount, regardless of the agent’s wealth. We will call this way
            <span><em>equal revenue distribution</em></span>. Equal tax revenue distribution is
        rarely done directly, but instead is in the form of social services such as free or
        inexpensive health care, education, child support, and a safety net for those who are
        disabled or unemployed.</p>
      <p>The model collects the sales tax after every exchange, and income and wealth taxes after
        every <math display="inline" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" alttext="N">
          <semantics>
            <mi>N</mi>
            <annotation encoding="application/x-tex">N</annotation>
          </semantics>
        </math> transactions. Tax revenue is distributed after <math display="inline"
          xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" alttext="N">
          <semantics>
            <mi>N</mi>
            <annotation encoding="application/x-tex">N</annotation>
          </semantics>
        </math> transactions. For simplicity, we start all agents with the same amount of wealth.
        Before you do the simulations, which taxation mechanism and revenue distribution do you
        think most benefits the poorer agents?</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
