<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
    <title>Wealth distributions from the model</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ejss.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section id="wealth-distributions-from-the-model" class="level1 unnumbered">
      <h1>Wealth distributions from the model</h1>
      <p>The key idea of the model is that usually one agent gains and one agent loses when they
        engage in economic activity. If you buy something, you give some of your wealth to the store
        in the form of money and you receive a product in exchange, which adds to your wealth.
        Usually, the store gains a profit from this exchange because the product is worth less than
        the money you paid for it. Thus, the store owner, after paying wages and other business
        costs, will usually have increased his or her wealth and you will have decreased yours.
        Occasionally the store might have a sale or promotion and sell a product for less than its
        cost. In this case you gain and the store loses wealth. A similar gain and loss occurs when
        paying wages and salaries and from buying and selling stocks. There is always somebody who
        gains and somebody who loses. </p>
      <p>In brief, wealth is exchanged in many economic activities, and this economic activity is
        captured in part by the model. Exchanges of equal value do not change the wealth of either
        agent and thus do not need to be included in the model. We will see that the details of the
        model, such as the number of agents, the initial wealth distribution, and the percentage of
        the minimum wealth that is exchanged do not effect the ultimate results. These details just
        change how long it takes to obtain the final distribution of wealth. For simplicity, we will
        choose the default value of the percentage exchanged to be 10% of the wealth of the poorer
        agent.</p>
      <p>Suppose that we consider a system of one hundred agents and give each agent the same amount
        of wealth. Before exploring the results of implementing the model, what do you expect to
        happen? After many exchanges, will the agents have roughly the same amount of wealth as they
        did initially? Will there be a well known distribution of wealth such as a bell shaped
        curve? Will there be a distribution of wealth among the agents such that we might be able to
        distinguish between the wealthy, the poor, and maybe a middle class?</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
