<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
    <title></title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ejss.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section id="section" class="level1 unnumbered">
      <h1>Why is there wealth inequality?</h1>
      <p>Most present-day societies exhibit large wealth inequalities. In particular, wealth
        inequality in the United States has increased significantly since the early 1970s, and the
        gap between the richest 1% and the remaining 99% is the greatest since the 1920s. The
        existence of wealth inequality has become so obvious that its existence is no longer in
        dispute.</p>
      <p>What are the reasons for the widening gap between the very rich and everybody else? Why
        does wealth inequality occur? There are likely many political, economic, and cultural
        reasons. We could learn how some people became very wealthy and what government policies
        contribute to greater or lesser inequality.</p>
      <p>We will learn in the following that simple models that do not include any specific details
        of economic activity show that inequality is a general and natural occurrence and is very
        difficult to prevent. Unlike climate models, for example, which require much background in
        science and very powerful computers, the models we will discuss can be simulated on a smart
        phone, tablet, or a laptop. We encourage you to play with the simulations and explore their
        results.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
