<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
    <title>Bibliography</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ejss.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section id="bibliography" class="level1 unnumbered">
      <h1>Bibliography</h1>
      <p>There are many resources that document the nature of wealth and income inequality in the
        United States and elsewhere. For example, see the <a
          href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_inequality_in_the_United_States"> discussion of
          income inequality</a> in the United States and a recent report by the <a
          href="http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2014/12/17/wealth-gap-upper-middle-income">Pew
          Research Center</a>. For an historical economic analysis of wealth inequality see Thomas
        Picketty's book on <i>Capital in the Twenty-First Century</i> in the Bibliography.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>“<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Income_inequality_in_the_United_States">Income
              inequality in the United States</a>,” Wikipedia (accessed November 23, 2015).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Chad Stone, Danilo Trisi, Arloc Sherman, and Brandon Debot, “<a
              href="http://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/a-guide-to-statistics-on-historical-trends-in-income-inequality"
              >A guide to statistics on historical trends in income inequality</a>,” Center on
            Budget and Policy Priorities (accessed November 23, 2015).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Thomas Picketty, <i><a
                href="http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674430006">Capital in The
                Twenty-First Century</a></i>, Harvard University Press (2013).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>The March 17, 2015 issue of the <a
              href="http://www.nytimes.com/2015/03/18/business/economy/taxes-take-away-but-also-give-back-mostly-to-the-very-rich.html"
              > New York Times</a> has an article that argues that tax revenue distribution benefits
            mostly the rich. </p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>The terms “income” and “wealth” are frequently used synonymously, but represent different
        quantities. Wealth includes all assets such as savings, real estate, and personal property.
        Income is due to wages, interest, dividends, etc. One advantage of considering income rather
        than wealth is that data on income is readily available. For example, the <a
          href="http://www.irs.gov/uac/SOI-Tax-Stats-Special-Studies-on-Individual-Tax-Return-Data">
          United States Internal Revenue Service</a> has much data available in the form of a
        spreadsheet. Much historical information about income inequality in the United States can be
        obtained from <a href="https://www.census.gov/hhes/www/income/data/historical/inequality/">
          census data</a>. </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>“<a href="https://www.irs.gov/uac/Tax-Stats-2">Tax Statistics</a>,” United States
            Internal Revenue Service (accessed December 1, 2015).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>“<a href="https://www.census.gov/hhes/www/income/data/historical/inequality/"
              >Historical Income Tables: Income Inequality</a>,” United States Cenus Bureau
            (accessed December 1, 2015).</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>The model we have discussed is an example of an agent-based model and has been mainly
        developed by physicists. It is commonly referred to as the asset exchange or yard sale
        model.  Read some of the original papers to learn more about this model.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <p>Brian Hayes, “Follow the money,” American Scientist
            <span><strong>90</strong></span>(5),   400-4005 (2002).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Victor M. Yakovenko and J. Barkley Rosser, Jr., “Colloquium: Statistical mechanics of
            money, wealth, and income,” Rev. Mod. Phys. <span><strong>81</strong></span>, 1703–1725
            (2009).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>P. L. Krapivsky and S. Redner, “Wealth distributions in asset exchange models,” Science
            and Culture <span><strong>76</strong></span>, 424–429 (2010).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Anirban Chakraborti, Ioane Muni Toke, Marco
            Patriarca Toke, and Frédéric Abergel, “Econophysics: Empirical facts and agent-based
            models,” arXiv: 0909.19742-1–51 (2010).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Anirban Chakraborti, Ioane Muni Toke, Marco Patriarca, and Frédéric Abergel,
            “Econophysics review: II. Agent-based models,” Quantitative Finance
                <span><strong>11</strong></span> (7), 1013–1041 (2011).</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Bruce M. Boghosian, “Kinetics of wealth and the Pareto law,” Phys. Rev. E
                <span><strong>89</strong></span>, 042804-1–22 (2014).</p>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
